Aim :- Study and implementation of Single-Sing-On.
What is Single Sign-On?
Single sign-on (SSO) is an authentication method that enables users to securely authenticate with
multiple applications and websites by using just one set of credentials.
Types of SSO configurations
Some SSO services use protocols, such as Kerberos or Security Assertion Markup Language
(SAML):
In a Kerberos-based setup, once user credentials are provided, a ticket-granting ticket (TGT) is
issued. The TGT fetches service tickets for other applications the user wants to access, without
asking the user to reenter credentials.
SAML is an Extensible Markup Language standard that facilitates the exchange of user
authentication and authorizationdata across secure domains. SAML-based SSO services involve
communications among the user, an identity provider that maintains a user directory and a
service provider.
Smart card-based SSO asks an end user to use a card holding the sign-in credentials for the first
login. Once the card is used, the user does not have to reenter usernames or passwords. SSO
smart cards store either certificates or passwords.
Advantages and Disadvantages of SSO
Advantages of SSO include the following:-
 Users need to remember and manage fewer passwords and usernames for each
application.
 The process of signing on and using applications is streamlined -- no need to reenter
passwords.
 The chances of phishing are lessened.
 IT help desks are likely to see fewer complaints or trouble about passwords.
Disadvantages of SSO include the following:-
 It does not address certain levels of security each application sign-on may need.
 If availability is lost, users are locked out of all systems connected to SSO.
 If unauthorized users gain access, they could access more than one application
steps:
1) Go to Auth0(https://auth0.com/ ) and create an account
2) Select account type as others, agree the terms and click on next.
3) Give tenant domain name, select the region and click on create account.
4) After creating your Account select Applications -> SSO Integrations and Click on “Create
SSO Integration

5) Now Select any Single Sign On Integration from below.
6) I have choosen BambooHR SSO Integration and click on Continue button.

7) Fill all the required details as shown below and click on save.
8) Now select Authenication -> Social and click on “google-oauth2” link.

9) Select “Try Connection”.
10) Select your Google Account and it will redirect you to Result page
