To study cloud architecture and cloud computing model.
Objectives :- From this experiment, the student will be able to
 To provide an overview of concepts of Cloud Computing .
 To encourage students to indulge into research in Cloud Computing.
Outcomes :- The learner will be able to
 To understand and appreciate cloud architecture.
 To analyze the local and global impact of computing on individuals, organizations, and
society.
 To recognize the need for, and an ability to engage in life-long learning.
Theory :-
Cloud computing enables companies to consume compute resources as a utility -- just like
electricity -- rather than having to build and maintain computing infrastructures in-house. Cloud
computing promises several attractive benefits for businesses and end users.
Three of the main benefits of cloud computing include :-
• Self-service provisioning: End users can spin up computing resources for almost
any type of workload on-demand.
• Elasticity: Companies can scale up as computing needs increase and then scale
down again as demands decreases.
 Pay per use: Computing resources are measured at a granular level, allowing users
to pay only for the resources and workloads they use.
Cloud computing services can be Private, Public or Hybrid.
 Private cloud services are delivered from a business' data center to internal users.
This model offers versatility and convenience, while preserving management,
control and security. Internal customers may or may not be billed for services
through IT chargeback.
 In the Public cloud model, a third-party provider delivers the cloud service over
the Internet. Public cloud services are sold on-demand, typically by the minute or
the hour. Customers only pay for the CPU cycles, storage or bandwidth they
consume. Leading public cloud providers include Amazon Web Services (AWS),
Microsoft Azure, IBM/Soft Layer and Google Compute Engine.
 Hybrid cloud is a combination of public cloud services and on-premises private
cloud – with orchestration and automation between the two.

Companies can run mission-critical workloads or sensitive applications on the private cloud while
using the public cloud for workloads that must scale on-demand. The goal of hybrid cloud is to
create a unified, automated, scalable environment which takes advantage of all that a public cloud
infrastructure can provide, while still maintaining control over mission-critical data.
Types of cloud computing :-
IT people talk about three different kinds of cloud computing, where different services are being
provided for you. Note that there's a certain amount of vagueness about how these things are
defined and some overlap between them.
 Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) means you're buying access to raw computing
hardware over the Net, such as servers or storage. Since you buy what you need
and pay-as-you-go, this is often referred to as utility computing. Ordinary web
hosting is a simple example of IaaS: you pay a monthly subscription or a per-
megabyte/gigabyte fee to have a hosting company serve up files for your website
from their servers.
 Software as a Service (SaaS) means you use a complete application running on
someone else's system. Web-based email and Google Documents are perhaps the
best-known examples. Zoho is another well-known SaaS provider offering a variety
of office applications online.
 Platform as a Service (PaaS) means you develop applications using Web-based
tools so they run on systems software and hardware provided by another company.
So, for example, you might develop your own ecommerce website but have the
whole thing, including the shopping cart, checkout, and payment mechanism
running on a merchant's server. Force.com (from salesforce.com) and the Google
App Engine are examples of PaaS.
Advantages and disadvantages of cloud computing :-
Advantages :- The pros of cloud computing are obvious and compelling. If your business is selling
books or repairing shoes, why get involved in the nitty gritty of buying and maintaining a complex
computer system? If you run an insurance office, do you really want your sales agents wasting
time running anti-virus software, upgrading word-processors, or worrying about hard-drive
crashes? Do you really want them cluttering your expensive computers with their personal emails,
illegally shared MP3 files, and naughty YouTube videos—when you could leave that
responsibility to someone else? Cloud computing allows you to buy in only the services you want,
when you want them, cutting the upfront capital costs of computers and peripherals. You avoid
equipment going out of date and other familiar IT problems like ensuring system security and
reliability. You can add extra services (or take them away) at a moment's notice as your business

needs change. It's really quick and easy to add new applications or services to your business
without waiting weeks or months for the new computer (and its software) to arrive.
Disadvantages :- Instant convenience comes at a price. Instead of purchasing computers and
software, cloud computing means you buy services, so one-off, upfront capital costs become
ongoing operating costs instead. That might work out much more expensive in the long-term.
If you're using software as a service (for example, writing a report using an online word processor
or sending emails through webmail), you need a reliable, high-speed, broadband Internet
connection functioning the whole time you're working. That's something we take for granted in
countries such as the United States, but it's much more of an issue in developing countries or rural
areas where broadband is unavailable.
If you're buying in services, you can buy only what people are providing, so you may be restricted
to off-the-peg solutions rather than ones that precisely meet your needs. Not only that, but you're
completely at the mercy of your suppliers if they suddenly decide to stop supporting a product
you've come to depend on. (Google, for example, upset many users when it announced in
September 2012 that its cloud-based Google Docs would drop support for old but de facto standard
Microsoft Office file formats such as .DOC, .XLS, and .PPT, giving a mere one week's notice of
the change—although, after public pressure, it later extended the deadline by three months.) Critics
charge that cloud-computing is a return to the bad-old days of mainframes and proprietary systems,
where businesses are locked into unsuitable, long-term arrangements with big, inflexible
companies. Instead of using "generative" systems (ones that can be added to and extended in
exciting ways the developers never envisaged), you're effectively using "dumb terminals" whose
uses are severely limited by the supplier. Good for convenience and security, perhaps, but what
will you lose in flexibility? And is such a restrained approach good for the future of the Internet
as a whole? (To see why it may not be, take a look at Jonathan Zittrain's eloquent book The Future
of the Internet—And How to Stop It.)
Conclusion :- Cloud computing enables a convenient and on-demand network access to a wide
range of resources. The different services and also the deployment models allow flexible service
provider interaction with minimal human intervention. It saves costs but also can lead to risk issues
and suspension of resources when in huge quantity
