Aim :- Email Forensics
- Mail Service Providers
- Email protocols
- Recovering emails
- Analyzing email header
FTK can filter or find files specific to e-mail clients and servers. You
can configure these filters when you enter search parameters.
Because of Jim’s responses to a poor performance review, the CEO of
Superior Bicycles,Martha Dax, suspects he might have obtained sensitive
information about the company’s business model that he’s leaking to a
competitor.
Martha asked her CIO, to have an IT employee copy the Outlook .pst file from
Jim Shu’s old computer to a USB
drive.
To process this investigation, we need to examine the Jim_shu’s.pst file,
locate the message, and export it for further analysis of its header to see how
Jim might have received it.
Recovering Email
Start AccessData FTK and click Start a new case, then click OK.
Click Next until you reach the Refine Case - Default dialog box Click
the Email Emphasis button , and then click Next .

Click Next until you reach the Add Evidence to Case dialog box, and then
click the Add Evidence button.
In the Add Evidence to Case dialog box, click the Individual File
option button, and then click Continue.

In the Select File dialog box, navigate to your work folder, click the
Jim_shu’s.pst file, and then click Open.
When the Add Evidence to Case dialog box opens, click Next. In the
Case summary dialog box, click Finish.
When FTK finishes processing the file, in the main FTK window, click
the E- mail Messages button, and then click the Full Path column header
to sort the records.

For email recovery follow following steps:
Click the E-Mail tab. In the tree view, click to expand all folders,
and then click the Deleted Items folder.

Select any message say Message0001 right click and select option Launch.
Detached Viewer and you can see detail of deleted message.
For analyzing header follow following
steps:
Click the E-Mail tab. In the tree view, click to expand all folders, and
then click the Inbox folder.
In the File List pane at the upper right, click Message0003; as shown in
the pane at the bottom, it’s from Sam and is addressed
to Jim_shu@comcast.net.

Right-click on any message say Message0003 in the File List pane and click
Export File. In the Export Files dialog box, click OK.

FTK saves exported files in the HTML format with no extension.
Right-click the Message0003 file and click Rename. Type Message0003.html
and press Enter.
Double-click Message0003.html to view it in a Web brows
