AIM : Capturing and analyzing network packets using Wireshark
(Fundamentals) :
- Identification the live network
- Capture Packets
- Analyze the captured packets
Capturing Packets
Capture traffic on your wireless network, click your wireless interface.
You can configure advanced features by clicking Capture > Options, but this isn’t
necessary for now.
As soon as you single-click on your network interface’s name, you can see how
the packets are working in real time. Wireshark will capture all the packets going
in and out of our systems.
Promiscuous mode is the mode in which you can see all the packets from other
systems on the network and not only the packets send or received from your
network adapter. Promiscuous mode is enabled by default. To check if this mode


is enabled, go to Capture and Select Options. Under this window check, if the
checkbox is selected and activated at the bottom of the window. The checkbox
says “Enable promiscuous mode on all interfaces”.
The red box button “STOP” on the top left side of the window can be clicked to
stop the capturing of traffic on the network.
Color Coding
Different packets are seen highlighted in various different colors. This is
Wireshark’s way of displaying traffic to help you easily identify the types of it.
Default colors are:
Light Purple color for TCP traffic
Light Blue color for UDP traffic
Black color identifies packets with errors – example these packets are
delivered in an unordered manner.
To check the color coding rules click on View and select Coloring Rules. These
color coding rules can be customized and modified to fit your needs.

Analyze the captured Packets:
First of all, click on a packet and select it. Now, you can scroll down to view all
its details.
Filters can also be created from here. Right-click on one of any details. From
the menu select Apply as Filter drop-down menu so filter based on it can be
created

Display filter command –
1. Display packets based on specific IP-address
 ip.addr == 192.0.2.1
2. Display packets which are coming from specific IP-address
 ip.src == 192.168.1.3
3. Display packets which are having specific IP-address destination
 ip.dst == 192.168.1.1

4. Display packets which are using http protocol
 http
5. Display packets which are using http request
 http.request
6. Display packets which are using TCP protocol
 tcp
7. Display packets having no error connecting to server
 http.response.code==200
